# What Is the Role of the Link Element in HTML, and How Can It Be Used to Link to External Stylesheets?

Let's learn about the `link` element, and how to use it to link to external stylesheets.

The `link` element is used to link to external resources like stylesheets and site icons. Here is the basic syntax for using the link element for an external CSS file:
`<link rel="stylesheet" href="./styles.css" />`

The `rel` attribute is used to specify the relationship between the linked resource and the HTML document. In this situation, we need to specify that this linked resource is a stylesheet.

It is considered best practice to separate your HTML and CSS in different files. Developers will use the link element for their external CSS file instead of writing everything in the HTML document.

The `href` attribute is used to specify the location of the URL for the external resource.

The dot followed by a forward slash in the example tells the computer to look in the current folder, or directory, for the styles.css file.

The link element should be placed inside the `head` element as seen in the following example:

```
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  <title>Examples of the link element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="./styles.css" />
</head>
```

Often times you will see multiple link elements inside a professional codebase that link to different stylesheets, fonts, and icons. Here is an example of using the `link` element to link to an external Google Font called Playwright Cuba:

```
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com" />
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin />
<link
  href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Playwrite+CU:wght@100..400&display=swap"
  rel="stylesheet"
/>
```

Google Fonts are a set of free and open source custom fonts that you can use inside any project. You can choose which fonts you would like to use and Google will provide you with the necessary HTML and CSS code. In this example, the `preconnect` value for the `rel` attribute tells the browser to create an early connection to the value specified in the href attribute. This is done to speed up loading times for these external resources.

Another common use case for the `link` element is to link to icons. Here is an example of linking to a favicon:

`<link rel="icon" href="favicon.ico" />`

A favicon, which is short for favorite icon, is a small icon typically displayed in the browser tab next to the site title. A lot of websites will use a favicon to display their brand icon.

## Questions

### What is the role of the link element in HTML?


- [ ] It specifies the content type of the linked resource.

- [ ] It determines the visibility of the linked resource on the webpage.

- [ ] It defines the font size of the linked resource when displayed.

- [x] It is used to link to external resources like stylesheets and site icons.

### What is the role of the rel attribute inside the link element?


- [ ] It is used to indicate the language of the linked document.

- [x] It is used to specify the relationship between the linked resource and the HTML document.

- [ ] It is used to define the media type of the linked document.

- [ ] It is used to determine the size of the linked document.

### What is a favicon?


- [ ] A type of JavaScript file used to enhance website functionality.

- [ ] A type of font used to style text on a website.

- [x] A small icon typically displayed in the browser tab next to the site title.

- [ ] A security feature used to prevent cross-site scripting attacks.