# How Do Forms, Labels, and Inputs Work in HTML?

The `form` element in HTML is used to gather user information, such as names and email addresses.

Here is an example of a form element:

```
<form action="url-goes-here">
  <!-- input elements go here -->
</form>
```

The `action` attribute specifies where the form data will be sent upon submission.
To collect specific information, like names and email addresses, you would use the `input` element.

Here is an example of using an input element.

```
<form action="">
  <input type="text" />
</form>
```



`input` elements are void elements and do not have closing tags.
The `type` attribute defines the data type expected from the user.
In this case, the data would be plaintext.
To add a label for the input, you would use a `label` element.

Here is an example of using a label element with the text of Full Name:

```
<form action="">
  <label>
    Full Name:
    <input type="text" />
  </label>
</form>
```

By nesting an `input` inside a `label` element, you create an implicit association between the label and the input field.
The term "implicit" refers to something that is understood or inferred without needing to be explicitly stated or defined with additional attributes or elements.
To explicitly associate a `label` with an `input`, you can use the `for` attribute.

Here is an example of using the `for` attribute for an email address `label`.

```
<form action="">
  <label for="email"> Email Address: </label>
  <input type="email" id="email" />
</form>
```

When using an explicit association, the values for the `for` attribute and `id` need to be the same.
In this case, the values are both set to email. The email type in the `input` provides basic validation for correctly formatted email addresses.
If you want to show additional hints to the users about the expected input, you can use the `placeholder` attribute.
Here is an example using the placeholder attribute inside the email input.

```
<form action="">
  <label for="email"> Email Address: </label>
  <input type="email" id="email" placeholder="example@email.com" />
</form>
```

For the placeholder text, you want to provide helpful short text to show the format and type of data you expect from your users. In this case, the placeholder text, example@email.com, shows the user that they must enter a correctly formatted email address.

## Questions

### What is the role of the for attribute inside the label element?


- [ ] It indicates the color of the label text.

- [X] It's used to explicitly associate a label with an input.

- [ ] It specifies the alignment of the label within its container.

- [ ] It defines a JavaScript function to execute when the label is clicked.

### Which of the following is a correct value for the type attribute used inside inputs?


- [ ] choice

- [ ] text-box

- [ ] numberinput

- [X] text

### What is the role of the placeholder attribute inside the input element?


- [X] It is used to provide a hint or example text within an input field.

- [ ] It specifies the type of input field.

- [ ] It defines the initial value displayed in the input field.

- [ ] It indicates the maximum length of characters allowed in the input field